
| cip  | title                            | author | status |
| ---- | -------------------------------- | ------ | ------ |
| 0010 | Rebate to the wallet APP vendors |        | Implemented in Dex2  |

## Abstract

A user can send a transaction to set her rebate address, which belongs to a wallet vendor in most cases. Thus when the user is trading in normal markets or bancor markets, part of the feature fees are sent to this rebate address.

## Background

Rebating is a common feature of centralized exchagnes. If user A invites user B to create an account in an exchange,  then the commission gathered from user A will be reserved a small portion for user B, and the remained is given to the exchange.

It is perferred that the CoinEx DEX supports similiar features.

## Motivation

Wallet APPs are very important to the ecosystem of CoinEx Chain. To encough the App vendors to develop better wallets and attract more users, rebating to them is necessary. The more users the App attracts, the more rebate the vendor can get.

## Changes
The following two attributes should be added to each account:

1. Referee: The rebating address, which is owned by a wallet vendor, in most cases
2. RefereeChangeTime:  A Unix timestamp indicating the last time of changing Referee (in nanoseconds)

Two parameters are added which can be changed by on-chain governance, just like other parameters:

1. RefereeChangeMinInterval: The minimum interval of two times of changing Referee (in nanoseconds)
2. RebateRatio: The commission rate for rebating. It's an integer between 0 and 10000, and the increment step is 0.01%.

A new message should be added:

```go
type MsgSetReferee struct {
    Sender  sdk.AccAddress
    Referee sdk.AccAddress
}
```

It set the `Sender`'s  rebating address to `Referee`. `Referee` must be an account which exists on chain with its `require-memo` attribute to false. And the timestamp of current block must be less than ` RefereeChangeTime + RefereeChangeMinInterval` .

For `coinex-dex v0.1.0`, in a normal market, when an order is removed (user deletion, expiration or fully-matched), all the frozen commission is unfrozen, and deducted according to the dealt percentage. Then the deducted commission is send to fee_collector as feature fee. And in a bancor market, when a user trades, the commission is calculdated according to the traded stock amount and then it is deducted and sent to fee_collector.

These behavior will be changed as: if an order's owner has already set her Referee, then the deducted commission will first be sent to the Referee (in a ratio specified by the parameter RebateRatio), and the fee_collector gets the remaining.
