cip | title | author | status
-----|-----|-----|----
0006|Charge feature fees according to the real life time of orders| | Draft 

## Background

CoinEx DEX Chain supports GTE orders, which allow user to specify the largest life time of an order (the time is measured in block count). The longer its life time is, the more likely it is eventrually matched.

## Motivation

The users should be charged according to the real life time of orders, instead of the specified life time.

The life time of an order is end in following cases:

*   It is fully matched
*   User delete it manually
*   The specified life time is met, and the order is deleted automatically

## Rule Change

At `coinexdex v0.1.0`, when an order is successfully creaetd on chain, the feature fee for store this order on chain through its life is deducted immediately from user's account. If the actual life time is less than the specified life time, the user can not get some feature fee back.

It is preferred that the feature fee is charged according to the actual life time, when an order is removed ahead of time. For example, if an order is scheduled to be stored on chain for at most 1000 blocks and it is removed ahead of time after 500 blocks, because of manually deletion or fulled match, then the user should be changed with feature fees of 500 blocks , instead of 1000 blocks.

### Implementation

1. When an order is create, the feature fee for storage is frozen inside of the user's account, according to the specified life time.
2. When an order is removed, the feature fee for storage is unfrozen and deducted from the user's account according to the actual life time.

The detailed calculation algorithm is： 

*   The user-specified block count to store the order on chain:  `expectBlocks`;
*   The feature fee for storage according to the specified life time: `featureFee`;
*   The actual life time (in blocks)：`actualBlocks`
*   The free life time threshold (no fees will be charged when life time is less than this threshold)：`freeTimeBlocks`;
*   The feature fee for storage will be finally deducted：`actualFee = （actualBlocks-freeTimeBlocks)/(expectBlocks-freeTimeBlocks)*featureFee`

## Change of API

The fields of the `Order` struct are changed for clarity:
```
type Order struct {
    ...
    ~~FrozenFee~~int64~~`json:"frozen_fee"`~~ //this field is deleted
    FrozenCommission int64          `json:"frozen_commission"`
    FrozenFeatureFee int64          `json:"frozen_feature_fee"`
}
```

The above modification will affect the query-order endpoint of the rest interface.

The fields of the `CreateOrderInfo` struct  and the `CancelOrderInfo` struct are also changed:


```
type CreateOrderInfo struct {
    ...
    FrozenFeatureFee int64          `json:"frozen_feature_fee"`
    ~~FeatureFee~~int64~~`json:"feature_fee"`~~ //this field is deleted
    ~~FrozenFee~~nt64~~`json:"frozen_fee"`~~//this field is deleted
    FrozenCommission int64          `json:"frozen_commission"`
}
type CancelOrderInfo struct {	
    UsedFeatureFee int64 `json:"used_feature_fee"`
}
```

The above modification will affect the data sent to trade-server.



## Update Requirement

- The added field of `Order` should be added to the generated genesis.json file