| cip  | title                                                        | author | status |
| ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------ | ------ |
| 0015 | How to use UTXO-like data structures to trace tokens' transferring history |        | Draft  |

## Overview

On a UTXO-based blockchain, such as Bitcoin, you can trace each UTXO all the way back to coinbase outputs. But on an account-based blockchain, such as ethereum and CoinEx Chain, when you send some tokens to somebody, there is no easy way to figure out where does these token come from.

Actually, there are more than one methods to link your wallet's incomes and outcomes. To promote consisence and co-operation, we should clearly define one method.

## Specification

The tokens in an account are divided into several virtual TXOs (VTXOs).  A virtual TXO has following attributes:

1. Timestamp: when this TXO was created
2. Owner: who has this TXO
3. ID: a unique id of this TXO
4. Token: the asset's name in this TXO
5. Amount: the amount of this asset
6. UsedAmount: the amount that has been referenced by later TXOs
7. RefList: each entry has:
   1. ID: another TXO's ID
   2. Amount: how much amount went from another TXO to this TXO

In an account, the VTXOs of the asset are organized as a FIFO. When you receive some tokens, a new VTXO is created and enqued into this FIFO. When you send some tokens, at least one VTXO will be changed and zero or more VTXOs will be dequeued from this FIFO.

When you send some tokens to other one, a new VTXO is created with a RefList. The VTXOs at the head of this FIFO are deducted to accumulate enough amount for this new VTXO. The VTXOs whose amount is dedected to zero, will be dequed from the FIFO. All the VTXOs whose amounts are deducted are referenced in RefList.

Following the RefList of VTXOs, we can always trace back to the token's issuer.