
| cip  | title                                                        | author | status |
| ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------ | ------ |
| 0005 | Change the execution logic of "sync" mode in sending transactions |        | Implemented in Dex2  |



## Abstract

This CIP describes how to change the execution logic of "sync" mode in sending transactions.



## Motivation

When sending transactions, there are two modes for sending feed back to users:

1. Sync mode: send feed back to users after the transaction passes 'CheckTx' and is added to mempool. Current implementation of 'CheckTx' only check the signature and gas fee of transactions. The drawback of sync mode is that it does not execute the transaction, i.e., the transaction only undergoes limited check and is possible to fail after it is packed in a block and get executed on chain.
2. Block mode: send feed back to users after the transaction is packed in a block and get executed on chain. The drawback of block mode is: 1. it needs more time to send feedback, which means bad user experience; 2. the gas fee will be deducted even if the transaction fails to execute on chain, which is a waste. 

We need another mode without these drawbacks. It must have these three features:

1. It should perform thorough checks on transactions, and if it says "Succeed", the transaction will not fail on chain, in most cases.
2. It should seed feedback immediately, at least no later than current sync mode.
3. When it says "Failed", the gas fee will not be deducted.

## Background

When developing the full node client (`cetd`) of CoinEx Chain, the message handlers developed in Golang is usually complex, with many checks to filter away the invalid transactions. When developing a wallet APP, the programmer must re-implement these check logics in other language (Javascript, Java, Kotlin, Swift, etc). Thus they can make sure that the broadcasted transactions will finally execute successfully on chain, instead of fail on chain and get gas fees deducted meaninglessly. This is a heavy burden for wallet APP programmers.

The reason behind this, is that Cosmos-SDK runs message handlers only for the transactions which is packed in a block. When accepting transactions into mempool, it only checks signatures and gas fee. Currently, most wallet APPs use the sync mode, which means sending 'Succeed' feedback to user after a transaction is successfully accepted into the mempool.

If we run message handlers when accepting transactions into mempool, we can get a better mode with the mentioned three features, which allows programmers to write much less checks.



## Implementation

Add a new command line option `--check-tx-with-msg-handle` for `cetd`, which controls the behavior of CheckTx. When `--check-tx-with-msg-handle=false`, 'CheckTx' only checks signature and gas fee (same as before). And when `--check-tx-with-msg-handle=true`, 'CheckTx' also runs message handlers.

A wallet APP's operator can start `cetd` with this option set to true at the server side, which acts as a gateway for wallet to broadcast transactions. The invalid transactions which will fail on chain, can not get broadcasted at the beginning.

Please note that when `--check-tx-with-msg-handle=true`, `cetd` will run slower than before, because it must run message handlers in 'CheckTx'. And when  `--check-tx-with-msg-handle=true`, `cetd` will clear the mempool when a block is committed. So, a validator MUST NOT set this option to true. This option is ONLY for wallet operators.



## Usage

When starting a full node, use the following command:

```bash
cetd start --check-tx-with-msg-handle=true
```

Thus all the sync-mode broadcasting through this gateway, will get thorough checks using message handlers.
