
cip | title | author | status |
-------|-------|------|-------|
0001 | Modify the rules for listing and delisting trading-pairs; modify the algorithm for calculating feature fees of orders | | Implemented in Dex2 |

## Abstract

Below describes how to change the rules for listing and delisting trading-pairs in CoinEx DEX Chain, which is a guide for the upper-level applications and token owners.

## Target

Modifying the list&delist rules can provide more flexibility and support more use cases.

## Rule Changes

### List a trading-pair

When listing a trading-pair, the following rules must be followed:

- There must be `stock`and `money` tokens on chain (i.e. have already been created)
- The trading-pair to be listed should not exist on chain
- The transaction for listing the trading pair must be signed by the token owner of `stock`

- **Remove the old rule**: ~~To list the trading-pairs whose `stock`and`money` are not`CET`, there must be a `stock/CET` trading pair on chain and it is not in the delist queue.~~
- The signer of the transaction for listing must have enough CET to pay the feature fee of listing a trading pair.
- There are no other rules.

### Delist a trading-pair

When delisting a trading-pair, the following rules must be followed:
- The trasaction of delisting a trading pair must be signed by the token owner of `stock`.
- **Remove the old rule**: ~~When there is B: XYZ/CET , can not delist M: XYZ/CET (M means market)~~
- **Remove the old rule**: ~~When there are M: XYZ/CET or M: XYZ/??? ,  can not delist M: XYZ/CET(M means market, B means bancor)~~
- The time of delisting a trading pair must be seven days after the timestamp of current block, i.e., `delistTime - blockTime >= 7days`
- There are no other rules.

**The algorithm to calculate feature fee:**

1. If the stock or money is CET, then calculate the feature fee according to the deal amount (in CET).

2. If we can not get a deal amount in step 1, search the price in the markets of cet/money, cet/stock, money/cet and stock/cet, one after another. The searching process stops when first price is found. These four markets are ordered this way because: if a market uses CET as its stock, then it will likely have more liquidity and the corresponding money is popular (in most cases). 

3. If we can not get a price in step2, then use a fixed minimum value for feature fee.

4. If the calculated feature fee is less than the fixed minimum value, use the fixed minimum value.


- The psuedo code of the algorithm is like below:

    ```
    if stock is CET then
        dealAmount = stockAmount；
    else if money is CET then
        dealAmount = stockAmount ✖️ price；
    else if there is cet/money pair then
        dealAmount = stockAmount ✖️ price ➗ cet/money latest price
    else if there is cet/stock pair then
        dealAmount = stockAmount ➗ cet/stock latest price
    else if there is money/cet pair then
        dealAmount = stockAmount ✖️ price ✖️ money/cet latest price
    else if there is stock/cet pair then
        dealAmount = stockAmount ✖️ stock/cet latest price
    else then
        dealAmount = 0
    end

    FeatureFee = dealAmount ✖️ 0.1%
    if FeatureFee < FixedMinimumFee then
        FeatureFee = FixedMinimumFee
    end
    ```


### Update Requirement
- Do not need to modify the generated genesis.json file
