
cip | title | author | status |
-------|-------|------|-------|
0002 | Modify the creation rules of Bancor market and the algorithms for calculating feature fees | | Implemented in Dex2 |


## Overview

In the current v0.1.0 CoinEx DEX Chain, there are some limitations for creating bancor market and calculating feature fee. Below introduces the current implementation details of current version.

#### Terms

Two kinds of markets can be created with token A  and token B. There are normal markets  and bancor markets. They are denoted as following：

> M: A/B
>
> B:  A/B

The token at the left side of slash '/' is the stock, and the token at the right is money. "M: A/B" means a normal market A/B, and "B: A/B" means a bancor market A/B.

#### Creation Rule

- The stock can not be CET
- "B: A/CET" can be created without any requrement
- "B: A/Non-CET-Token" can only be created when there is already a "M: A/CET" market

#### Deletion Rule

- To successfully delete "B: A/???", there must be a "M: A/CET"

#### Feature Fee Calculation

- For "B: A/CET", it's TradeFeeRate \* dealMount (dealAmount is measured in CET)
- B: A/non-cet，it's TradeFeeRate \* the latest price of "M: A/cet". If the latest price of "M: A/cet" is missing, then the bancor transaction will fail.



## Rule Changes

#### Motiviation 

Current implementation limits the freedom to  create trading pairs and the potential of bancor is not fully realized.

#### New Rules

**Create Bancor Market**

- CET can be the stock of bancor market, i.e., it's allowed to create "B: cet/XYZ"
- Bancor market can be freely created, without any requirement of the existence of normal markets

**Calculate Feature Fee (Same as normal market)**

1. If the stock or money is CET, then calculate the feature fee according to the deal amount (in CET).
2. If we can not get a deal amount in step 1, search the price in the markets of cet/money, cet/stock, money/cet and stock/cet, one after another. The searching process stops when first price is found. These four markets are ordered this way because: if a market uses CET as its stock, then it will likely have more liquidity and the corresponding money is popular (in most cases). 

3. If we can not get a price in step2, then use a fixed minimum value for feature fee.

4. If the calculated feature fee is less than the fixed minimum value, use the fixed minimum value.

**Delete Bancor Market**

- Bancor markets can be deleted without any requirement of the existence of normal markets
- The deletion time must be after EarliestCancelTime, which is specified when the bancor market was created.
> A market maker with sincerity can set EarliestCancelTime to far future to ensure the liquidity of this token.

- **Remove the old rule**: ~~"B: A/???" can be successfully only when there is "M: A/CET"~~

### Update Requirement

- Do not need to modify the generated genesis.json file
