
| cip  | title                                                    | author | status |
| ---- | -------------------------------------------------------- | ------ | ------ |
| 0013 | Signing process for off-chain messages using private key |        | Draft  |

## Abstract

An account uses its private key to sign on-chain messages to form valid transaction which can be packed into blocks, which will be exected to change the account's status.

Usually there is a real person behind an on-chain account, and the account's private can also be used as an authentication tool for this person in some off-chain activities, such as to login a website or to vote for some issue.

This CIP specifies how to sign off-chain messages and how to construct off-chain messages for several common use cases.



## Background

The [BIP-137](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0137.mediawiki) is defined for Bitcoin accounts signing off-chain transactions. This CIP mainly follows its method.

## Motivation

This CIP standarlized the data formats and operations which are used in signing off-chain messages. Thus different wallet Apps and websites can interact with each other smoothly.



## Signing Algorithm

The signing target has three parts: 

1. The prefix: \u0018CoinEx Token Signed Message:\n 
2. A [variable length integer](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Protocol_documentation#Variable_length_integer) showing the length of the message
3. The message itself

These three parts are concated together and hashed with sha256. The hashed result (32 bytes) is signed using the secp256k1 private key. The signing results include `v` (the recovery id, 1 byte), `r` (32 bytes) and `s` (32 bytes). The `v`, `r` and `s` are concated together to form a 65-byte string. The final result is the base64 representation of this 65-byte string.

## Construct off-chain messages

This section specifies how to construct several common off-chain messages.

### Login to a website

Nowadays it is very common to use mobile App to scan QR Code on a web site for authentication. Most popular web sites have corresponding mobile Apps. When you want to login to a web site on PC, you use mobile App to scan QR Code. It is more secure and convenience than using password to login. This feature is also used for third-party login. For example, you can use WeChat to login many web sites by scanning QR Code. 

An account on CoinEx Chain can have aliases with good readability. And wallet App can securely keep the private key. Your alias can be used as user name when you register or login to some website. And the signatures generated using the private key, can be used for authentication. So, a wallet App have enough infrustrure to implement "Scanning QR Code for login".

When you login to a website, the off-chain message should be like:

```
Login <url> as <bech32-address-or-alias>
```

The `<url>` should be a one-time ephemeral login link of the website and `<bech32-address-or-alias>` should be your bech32 address or your alias on CoinEx Chain.

This message should be shown as QRCode on the page of website, prompting for user to use wallet app scanning it. If the  `<bech32-address-or-alias>` is unknown, just show `Login <url>`.

When the wallet app finishes signing,  it sends a POST request to the `<url>` and the request body has two lines: the first line is the message itself and the second line is its signature.

If the wallet app does not sign this message for an enough long time, the ephemeral `<url>` should expire.

### Voting

A company's stock can be mapped to the tokens on CoinEx Chain. And the token owners are stockholders. If the stockholders want to vote for some matter, they can use their private keys.

A off-chain voting message should be like:

```
Vote <url> as <bech32-address-or-alias>
```

The opinions are encoded as part of `<url>`.

When the wallet app finishes signing,  it sends a POST request to the `<url>` and the request body has two lines: the first line is the message itself and the second line is its signature.

### Binding on-chain and off-chain accounts

Sometimes we want to bind an on-chain and an off-chain account together, confirming they are actually controlled by the same person.

 A off-chain binding message should start with "Bind" and contain information about the websites and the user's off-chain account.

You should send a message to the admin of the website, which contains your alias or address on CoinEx Chain and the signature. The website should provide method for you to send the message, such as an email or a HTML form. 



 