
| cip  | title                      | author | status |
| ---- | -------------------------- | ------ | ------ |
| 0008 | Enhance the Bancor markets |        | Implemented in Dex2  |

## Abstract

To support non-linear price-supply curve, add a `max_money` field to the bancor market creation request.

## Motivation

For `coinex-dex v0.1.0`, the price-supply curve for bancor markets must be linear. To support more use cases, exponential curve must be supported.

## Change of API

- MsgBancorInit adds a new `max_money` field

```
type MsgBancorInit struct {
   Owner              sdk.AccAddress `json:"owner"`
   Stock              string         `json:"stock"` 
   Money              string         `json:"money"` 
   InitPrice          string         `json:"init_price"`
   MaxSupply          sdk.Int        `json:"max_supply"`
   MaxPrice           string         `json:"max_price"`  //*** newly-added field ***
   MaxMoney           sdk.Int        `json:"max_money"`
   StockPrecision     byte           `json:"stock_precision"`
   EarliestCancelTime int64          `json:"earliest_cancel_time"`
}
```

`max_money` means when all the stock are sold out, the total amount exchanged money.

## Price Curve

Bancor Whitepaper give this formula to calculate price:
$$
price = \sqrt[{\alpha}]{\frac{supply}{supply_{max}}}price_{max}
$$


Where  ${\alpha} = \frac{1}{CW} - 1=\frac{1-CW}{CW}$

Use AR (alpha reciprocal)to denotethe reciprocal of $\alpha$, i.e. $AR=\frac{1}{\alpha}=\frac{CW}{1-CW}$, we have:
$$
price = price_{max}*({\frac{supply}{supply_{max}}})^{AR}
$$

In Bancor whitepaper, the initial price is zero. To permit non-zero initial price, we change the above formula to:
$$
price = price_{init} + (price_{max}-price_{init})*(\frac{supply}{supply_{max}})^{AR}         
$$
This formula is used in real code to calculate the current price of a Bancor market. It is only used for presentation, not used in calculating the transferred token amount.

Calculate the integral of above formula, against the variable $supply$, we can get how the money amount is changed according to the stock supply：
$$
money = price_{init}*supply+\frac{price_{max}-price_{init}}{AR+1}*(\frac{supply}{supply_{max}})^{AR}*supply
$$

Let $supply=supply_{max}$, We get:
$$
money_{max} = price_{init}*supply_{max}+\frac{price_{max}-price_{init}}{AR+1}*supply_{max}
$$

$$
money_{max} - price_{init}*supply_{max} = \frac{price_{max}*supply_{max}-price_{init}*supply_{max}}{AR+1}
$$

$$
AR+1 = \frac{price_{max}*supply_{max}-price_{init}*supply_{max}}{money_{max} - price_{init}*supply_{max}}
$$

$$
AR = \frac{price_{max}*supply_{max}-money_{amx}}{money_{max}-price_{init}*supply_{max}}
$$
During implementation, we take the effective range of $AR$ as $[0, 5]$.

Let $R=\frac{supply}{supply_{max}}, R\in[0,1]$, We have:
$$
money = price_{init}*R*supply_{max}+\frac{price_{max}-price_{init}}{AR+1}*R^{AR+1}*supply_{max}
$$
And let $money_{delta}=\frac{price_{max}-price_{init}}{AR+1}*supply_{max}=money_{max}-price_{init}*supply_{max}$, we have:
$$
money = price_{init}*R*supply_{max}+money_{delta}*R^{AR+1}
$$
This formula is used in real code to calculate the money amount frozen in Bancor market according to the stock supply. BancorTrade transactions specify the delta change of stock supply. Use above formula to get the money frozen amount before and after the changing of stock supply, and the difference between them is the delta change of the money frozen amount, which is also the transferred money in this BancorTrade.

## Compatiblility

When the field `max_money` is set to zero, the price-supply curve will be linear, just like `coinex-dex v0.1.0`. And this linear curve is determined by the `InitPrice`, `MaxPrice` and `MaxSupply` fields.
